So now that we can kinda
see how to construct data,
let's look at retrieving data.
It all starts with a reference,
which we saw in the quick example.
We can create a collection reference.
So we pass in collection, and
then we pass in our FireStore example or
a FireStore instance, and then we
have now a reference out for users.
And then what we tend to do is the sort
of the naming convention that I use is
the name of the reference, and
then Col if it's a collection.
Or if I wanna get a single document,
I can write a full path out to it.
So users/david would get me to
the document, a single document of David.
And then I'll just say userDoc or
davidDoc,
usually you don't know the ID name.
And now from there,
I have the beginnings of being able
to access data at that location.
And then if I want to get this data and
in real time, I call that
method with onSnapshot, and then it
returns back to me the data snapshot.
And snapshot is a very fitting name for
this because we're not getting
the data as is in that spot.
We're getting the data as it was when
that transaction fired because this is
a real time system, so
things can change all the time.
So at that point,
that is what the data look like.
Another update happened, well,
that's gonna call back again, and
that's what the data
looks like at that point.
And also, like I mentioned, the snapshot
is gonna have tons of other information
that we can use to build
really powerful apps.
So within documents, it's simple,
if you're listening to
onSnapshot with a document,
it's going to come back with just data.
And that's just the shape of
the data that's being stored there.
With a collection,
it's a whole list of documents, and so
you get that back as an array and
you can map over them or do whatever.
You can reduce,
it's just a JavaScript array, so
whatever array tricks you'd like to do.
What I find is most common is that people
do map over and just return the data back.
Again, this is my will sentence
execution context moment.
Right here,
we do not await writes that happen or
any updates that happen in Firebase.
When I update the name of this userDoc,
I'm not waiting for it to get back.
Well, I do care, but I do not care
to track that it succeeded or
it errored in this case.
What I care to do is get
when this update fires.
So the first time onSnapshot runs,
it's just gonna have my name.
But then when I update it with an
exclamation mark, it's gonna fire again.
What's important note here is that even
if this transaction fails, cuz a lot of
people, they wanna wait to see, hey, if it
fails, I wanna be able to try it again.
You don't have to do that.
If this fails for network reasons,
it will sit in a background queue and
waits to keep trying until
it's able to do it again.
So you don't actually have to worry
about managing the state of or
the network success of any
of your writes to Firestore.
Firestore handles all of that
behind the scenes for you.
>> Are the docs out of date?
On the Add Data docs,
they use await setDoc in multiple places.
>> So they show you in the docs that you
can do it because there are times where
you do want to await the results.
But that is only when you are saying,
it is paramount in some
situation that I understand
that I received this
update from the server.
Because that's what await does is it says,
hey,
I want to know that the server
acknowledged that this happened.
There are situations where
that is important, but for
the most part,
if you're using onSnapshot, it is not.
If you are not using onSnapshot, though,
if you are just doing a traditional, which
is possible we actually have a subset of
Firestore library called Firestore Lite.
Which is a much smaller version
that doesn't have the offline
capabilities in real time streaming, that
you do follow more of a request response,
because it is basically a REST wrapper.
But in this world of real time updates,
while you can await and
there might be cases too and
we document that that happens,
we recommend that you don't await.
And if you do care about
listening to errors,
you do that in the second callback.
That's a good question.
Our documentation documents everything
that we expose within the library.
So writing data,
we can do that mutation functions.
Calling setDoc,
this does something destructively.
So whatever data existed there
before gets overwritten.
So this could have had name was Mark,
but then if I call with David,
it's just going to erase that entirely.
And this is good for
when you're doing create style operations.
And then we have updateDoc,
which is a lot easier on the doc,
where it doesn't do a destructive update.
It just looks at the delta of the
difference and it updates that document.
But the catch with updateDoc is
that the document must exist for
it to be updated or
you're gonna get an error.
So to get the best of both worlds here is
there's actually a second option
within setDoc called merge, and
it operates like an update, but
for a document that may not exist.
So in this case,
I have a path of users/new_user_maybe.
And I can write the name, and
maybe this user exists, maybe they don't.
But what I wanna do is I'm gonna merge it,
so if they do exist,
it's just gonna update the name.
So it's gonna act like an update, but it
won't error if the document doesn't exist.
I find that the vast majority of times,
this is what I'm using when
I'm building my apps is merge true
kinda just tends to get you there.
There are certain cases, though, where
each one you want that specific behavior,
but this is sort of the nice
middle ground behavior, yes.
>> If you have the path incorrect and it
keeps trying to get real time updates in
the queue, is there any way to
stop listening to the updates?
Or could this cause a slowdown if
the connection is open for too long?
>> That's a great question.
If there's nothing there,
you're not gonna get anything back.
And you're only going to get updates
when something happens to that document.
So in general, you should limit the amount
of things that you are subscribing
to cuz that's just opening
yourself up to receiving updates.
But if there's nothing there and
it doesn't exist,
you're not going to be getting updates.
So if it's null forever, you're just
never gonna get updates back from that.
It's a good question.
And then deleting documents also, create
a document out to what you want to delete,
pass it in, and then it gets deleted.
So one thing too that's very important to
understand is that when you're working
with a real time system, how you
name your paths are very important.
And not just for the collection name,
but specifically for document names.
So collection of users make sense,
that's what I would name a table of users.
But this path right here of some-name,
this operates a lot like my primary key.
So how do I make sure that in
a real time system that I'm not
overriding all these updates
on certain documents?
Well, one of the things that we
provide is the way to generate IDs.
And so we do that on a client base.
And so in this case,
rather than writing out to and
having to think up of a name for
every type of document.
Or for even me having to think about
what the primary key, so to speak,
of this collection or for
this document would be.
What I'd rather do is instead of that,
I can pass in users column to
this method called addDoc.
And what that will do is it
will add this new user, but
it will automatically generate a key for
them.
And generated keys in real time systems
are great because if you are constantly
trying to write to the same document,
you get lots of race conditions.
Because one person tried
to write something here.
Wait, another real time update came in,
write it there.
There are ways to do this,
which we're gonna see at the very end of
this section atomically with transactions.
But for the most part, if you distribute
all of your documents to have generated
IDs, you don't see as many flickering
updates and race conditions.
And then, yes, a lot of times too when
people get started with Firebase,
they think that generated ID
happens on the server, but
it actually happens within the client.
So just by creating a blank document
with a parent of a user collection,
I call .id on it, and
it has a generated ID.
And then from there, I could set it.
But I get access to that ID,
I find that that ID is really great for
syncing it with DOM element IDs.
So that way you can find it and
update its data quite easily.